# Chapter 1: Introduction to Graph Data Modeling

The purpose of this chapter is to get our readers excited about becoming an expert in graph data modeling.

## Models of the World

## What is a Graph Data Model?

## Why is Graph Data Modeling Important?

### The GraphRAG Pattern

How traditional RAG only builds throw-away search tools.
How GraphRAG builds the foundation of knowledge about your organization.

### The Urgency of the Real-Time Cental Nervous System

Don't just model your customers and products.  Also model your competitors and their products.
Be able to respond in real-time to changing market conditions.
Be a central tool to help executives make good strategic decisons.

## Data, Information, and Knowledge

### The Knowledge Triangle

1. The Data Layer is the lower layer that just has rows of 1s and 0s
2. The Information Layer is where we convert raw data to isolated facts.  We identify people, places and things in our world and catalog each one in a consistent way.
3. The top layer is the knowledge graph layer.  It is how we connect data.

### From Sensor Data To Concepts

## Models and Algorithms

### Case Study: Page Rank

A story about Google and the Page Rank algorithm developed at Stanford by Larry Page.
Note that when Google went public, the shares generated by the patent were worth $350M.

## Other Related Models

### Relational

### Analytical

### Key Value Stores

### Document Models

## The ISO Graph Query Language (GQL)

## Graph Models and LLMs

## The Future of Graph Databases

## Conventions Used In This Book

We use title case for names of nodes and all uppercase with underscores for the names of edges.  We use lower case for attributes.

This convention allows us to quickly see the data type when reading queries.

## Callouts and Annotations

In order to enhance the readability of this book we use the following callouts and annotations:

!!! Note
    Sample note text.

!!! Warning

!!! Prompt

## Code Highlighting

